
Remember the awesome time of Nokia phones? But do you remember some of
their software that came with it such as the Nokia LifeBlog?
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nokia_Lifeblog) it was great! What was
missing from it were TAGS, A SHARING MECHANISM, and the INCENTIVE
DYNAMIC.

Tim Berners-Lee describes his motivation and thinking for the URL in
his biographies which emphasize the emergence of the WWW. Those
concepts have taken not only root but rest like the Turtle which
supposedly held up the universe. Do URLs and URIs with their
insistance or effort to make things unique not supporting our world?
Our world has redundancy and the organic nature of life promotes
that. Resources have duplicates and it is a natural occurance which is
not truly embraced.

This document, https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt, describes in more
detail the motivational mindset that continues on this path when
defining the URI in 2005. From the Abstract, <...resolving URI
references that might be in relative form, along with guidelines and
security considerations for the use of URIs on the Internet.The URI
syntax defines a grammar that is a superset of all valid URIs...>, and
the keywords 'resolving'/'security'/'valid'. These keywords have to
emerge once you place that letter 'U' for universal/unique/uniform
etc. It is a basic axiom from which other assumptions emerge
directly. What is wrong with them? You have to 'resolve' issues from
the stochastic nature of life to keep a common understanding, you have
to keep it secure as to have the uniform nature needs a central
authority producing a vulnerability to the whole network and the word
valid means there has to be a gatekeeper regardless of how that
deciding entity is given access.

Even from early on in the document: 1.1.  Overview of URIs

   URIs are characterized as follows:

   Uniform

      Uniformity provides several benefits.  It allows different types
      of resource identifiers to be used in the same context, even
      when the mechanisms used to access those resources may differ.
      It allows uniform semantic interpretation of common syntactic
      conventions across different types of resource identifiers.  It
      allows introduction of new types of resource identifiers without
      interfering with the way that existing identifiers are used.  It
      allows the identifiers to be reused in many different contexts,
      thus permitting new applications or protocols to leverage a pre-
      existing, large, and widely used set of resource identifiers.

<Uniformity provides some benefits...> Ok, but does it take any other
benefits away?.. < It allows different types of resource identifiers
to be used in the same context> Yes, that is write but can you then
use those types in different context easily?

And Tim Berners-Lee finds it surprising that the web and data is under
control and is trying to fix it with Inrupt and Solid using the same
axioms of information space?..

It is reinforced throughout the document; "Each URI begins with a
scheme name, as defined in Section 3.1, that refers to a specification
for assigning identifiers within that scheme.  As such, the URI syntax
is a federated" and how does he find himself surprised that the
internet evolved the way it did when its design designates a single
mapping source all resources rely on? There are some key
impracticalities such as "A URI often has to be remembered by people,
and it is easier for people to remember a URI when it consists of
meaningful or familiar components.", but how can those be easy if all
resources get compressed into a single universal namespace? It becomes
obvious what challenges are imposed by looking at the remaining
document outlining a bureaucracy of how to deal with all of the issues
of the locations and identifications of resources. Yes, it brings a
benefit set listed, but the question is; if I let go of those
requirements can I get something in return for the loss? Hopefully
something equally as good.

The Good Stuff ---- After having pointed out all the things that can
be reassessed, there are some brilliant concepts that should be
utilized. Especially the concept of the RDF Triple store:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triplestore and
https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-concepts/#section-triples that was
introduced with the concept of the semantic web. This creates a three
component entity of each resource into: (Subject, Predicate,
Object). An example can be (Subject='Steve', Predicate='is',
Object='happy') where each triple store element can be seen as a node
and these elements/literals can be connected with a directed
edge. What is even more amazing is that this creates a directed set of
nodes which other triple stores can overlap due to their common use of
node entity references and ... subsequently create a network!
(remember that networks are powerful)

Each subject can be seen as an Actor to make an Actor-network. It then
can tell a story which can be a play which might remind some of the
Shakespeare quote that we are all actors in a play, but did you know
that the Roman philosopher Epectitus said something similar many years
before that?! What is more interesting is that the romantic languages
(and others) give the ability for verbs to apply to inanimate objects
and for them to have grammatical gender so that they are given a bit
of personality. This in Homer is evident in parts where its described
how the arrow raced with all its might to the target, or even in
George Martin's Game of Thrones books which also uses the Homer
structure where there are chapters for each character in the great
war; when Tyrion is in the underground tunnel system turning the
frozen lock and its described how the 'lock screamed in protest'. So
this means our triple store can have even
(Subject1,Predicate,Subject2) since they have a connection declaration
where another possible Subject acts as an Object. Niklas Luhmann
discussed the actor-network in his theories.

If the 'U' is dropped then there can be disjoint graphs and also
within connected nodes contradicting associations producing
effectively Multiple views which are different universes each sees so;
there is a MULTIVERSE. Funny enough, Luhmann touched on this and from
<https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1057/9781137015297_13> 'society
can be represented as a multiverse and not a single unique universe'
when considering the 'autopoietic self-constructed perceptions of
reality'.

(@mantzaris: my dad, Panos Mantzaris, made a remark that the approach
is more Aristotelian than Platonic since Plato promoted the idea that
there are ideal constructions all of us use in references of language
while Aristotle believed in the individual perspective being what an
individual uses to make decisions.

The specification should be as simple as JSON and REST so that
interexchange from other frameworks carving a similar path of
incentivised tagging can easily be done.
