
The quote from Kalashnikov (the famous gun designer) should be taken
seriously: "Things that are complex are not useful, Things that are
useful are simple."*

- What do we want to do? Solve problems.

- What problem have we identified? Adding suitable meta-data (like
  tags) to resources/content/media/files is cumbersome and time
  consuming.

- What are we going to do about it? Give users a tool to tag resources
  as they naturally desire and provide a sharing mechanism that
  captures the correspondance and compatibility of the resourses and
  meta-data.

- How will that work? Meta-data is applied to content by users which
  is then shared, users receiving new content and the associated
  meta-data sample the compatibility applying a confirmation or
  disapproval of the meta-data which is then used to decide whether
  the source user's data is compatible for a merge or not.

- Why will people bother using it? Time is precious and this tool will
  take time from the user, to help them avoid wasting even more time
  scanning through resources which are hard to index/sort through
  relevance, and have like minded people's effort augment their own.

- Is there a way to lure power users to participate? It is known that
  the effort amongst users in a group follows a power law and there
  has to be incentive for those capable of putting in the time to do
  so; some direct feedback for their efforts. Keeping things simple
  that return of value is 'popularity' (a simple timeless
  currency). Tags which are supported, or useful, promote the creator.

- Can a new approach filter out unwanted content? This is probably the
  most essential as filtration is a basic principle. Yes it can by
  allowing negative sentiment to be directly accounted for both
  positive and negative edges to be produced.

- What about dashboards and overviews? There are many tools and
  features that can be introduced and maybe not a single approach is
  taken but they can still interact meaningfully if they follow the
  basic resource and meta-data paradigm.

How the promotion scheme works can become intricate and complicated
very easily. It can be kept simple by relying on the premise that any
activity which a user produces can be shared with other users that can
express their approval or disapproval.

*There are 2 other versions of this quote by Kalashnikov: "When a
young man, I read somewhere the following: God the Almighty said, 'All
that is too complex is unnecessary, and it is simple that is needed'"
and another version: “When a young man, I read somewhere the
following: God the Almighty said, 'All that is too complex is
unnecessary, and it is simple that is needed' ... So this has been my
lifetime motto – I have been creating weapons to defend the borders of
my fatherland, to be simple and reliable.”




